Steps to install windows 11:
1. Check compatibility:

Use the PC Health Check app to see if your device meets Windows 11's minimum requirements [Compatibility checker for Windows 11].
2. Back up your data:

Upgrading usually keeps your files, but it's recommended to back up important data just in case.
3. Upgrade via Windows Update:

Go to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update.
Click "Check for updates".
If the upgrade is available, you'll see a notification for "Upgrade to Windows 11". Click "Download and install" and follow the on-screen instructions.

Steps to install Vs Code:
Download the VS Code installer for Windows from the official site [Visual Studio download].
Run the downloaded installer (usually named "VSCodeSetup.exe").
Click "Install" (default options are fine for most users).
Launch VS Code from the installer or Start menu and start coding

Steps to install git and github:
Download the Git installer for your operating system from https://www.git-scm.com/downloads.
Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions. During installation, choose the option to use Git from the command line.

Set up Git :
Open a command prompt or terminal window.
Type git config --global user.name "Your Name" (replace "Your Name" with your actual name).
Type git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com" (replace with your email address).
Create a GitHub account (optional):

Go to https://github.com/index.
Click "Sign up for GitHub" and follow the steps to create a free account

Steps on how to install python:
Download the installer:

Visit the official Python downloads [Official Python download].
Under "Latest Python Releases for Windows", choose the latest stable version (e.g., 3.11.x).
Download the appropriate installer based on your system (32-bit or 64-bit).
Run the installer:

Double-click the downloaded file (e.g., "python-3.11.x-amd64.exe").
Crucially, check the box for "Add Python 3.x to PATH" during installation. This allows you to run Python from any command prompt.
Click "Install Now" .
Verify installation (optional):

Open a command prompt (search for "cmd" in the Start menu).
Type python --version and press Enter. If Python is installed correctly, you'll see the installed Python version.

Steps on intalling Pip(python):
Open a command prompt (search for "cmd" in the Start menu).
Navigate to the directory where Python is installed (usually C:\Python3x\Scripts). You can find this path in Python settings or by running where python in the command prompt.
Type python -m ensurepip and press Enter. This will download and install pip using Python's built-in mechanism.
In the command prompt, type pip --version and press Enter. If pip is installed, you'll see the installed pip version.

Steps to install MySQL:
Download the installer:

Go to the MySQL downloads page [MySQL downloads].
Under "MySQL Installer for Windows", choose the version compatible with your system (32-bit or 64-bit). There are two options: web installer (smaller download) or offline installer (full package). Web installer is recommended for most users.
Run the installer:

Double-click the downloaded file (e.g., "mysql-installer-community-8.0.x-winx64.msi").
Choose "Developer Default Settings" during installation.
Crucially, during the "Security Settings" step, set a strong password for the root user.
Complete the installation:

Click "Next" through the remaining installation prompts. The installer will download and configure MySQL components.
Verify installation (optional):

Open a command prompt (search for "cmd" in the Start menu).
Type mysql -u root -p and press Enter. Enter the root password you set during installation. If successful, you'll see the MySQL prompt.

Steps on how to install Extensions on Vs Code:
Open VS Code.
Click the Extensions icon (puzzle piece) on the Activity Bar (left sidebar).
Search for the extension you want.
Click "Install" for the desired extension e.g code runner,prettier,mysql tools.

Here are some of the Challenges I faced setting up my envrionment and how i solved them:
1. Compatibility issues while installing windows 11 hence i had to uprgrade my operating system to the latest version.
2. Environmental configuration issues hence i had to verity that variables like PATH are the correctly.
3. Version control problems with git hence i had first check the version installed and the configure it by using the following command ; git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"







